README.md, before:

# Anvill

Anvill implements simple machine code lifting primitives using Remill.
The goal of these components is to produce high quality bitcode,
which can then be further decompiled to C (via Clang ASTs) using
[Rellic](https://github.com/trailofbits/rellic.git).

We define "high quality bitcode" as being similar in form to what the
Clang compiler would produce if it were executed on a semantically
equivalent C function.

<!-- ## Build Status

|       | master |
| ----- | ------ |
| Linux | [![Build Status](https://github.com/lifting-bits/anvill/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lifting-bits/anvill/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)| -->

## Getting Help

If you are experiencing undocumented problems with Anvill then ask for help in the `#binary-lifting` channel of the [Empire Hacking Slack](https://empireslacking.herokuapp.com/).

## Supported Platforms

Anvill is supported on Linux platforms and has been tested on Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04.

## Dependencies

Most of Anvill's dependencies can be provided by the [cxx-common](https://github.com/trailofbits/cxx-common) repository. Trail of Bits hosts downloadable, pre-built versions of the libraries for select operating systems, which makes it substantially easier to get up and running with Anvill. Nonetheless, the following table represents most of Anvill's dependencies.

| Name | Version |
| ---- | ------- |
| [Git](https://git-scm.com/) | Latest |
| [CMake](https://cmake.org/) | 3.14+ |
| [Clang](http://clang.llvm.org/) | 8.0+|
| [Remill](https://github.com/lifting-bits/remill) | Latest |
| [Python](https://www.python.org/) | 3.8 |
| [IDA Pro](https://www.hex-rays.com/products/ida) | 7.5+ |
| [Binary Ninja](https://binary.ninja/) | Latest |

## Getting and Building the Code

### On Linux
First, update aptitude and get install the baseline dependencies.

```shell
dpkg --add-architecture i386

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

sudo apt-get install \
     git \
     python3.8 \
     python3-pip \
     wget \
     curl \
     build-essential \
     libtinfo-dev \
     lsb-release \
     zlib1g-dev \
     ccache \
     cmake \
     libc6-dev:i386 \
     'libstdc++-*-dev:i386' \
     g++-multilib

# Ubuntu 14.04, 16.04
sudo apt-get install realpath
```

Assuming we have [Remill](https://github.com/lifting-bits/remill) properly installed the following steps provide a fresh build of Anvill.

```shell
# clone anvill repository
git clone https://github.com/lifting-bits/anvill.git
# create a build dir
mkdir anvill-build && cd anvill-build
# configure
CC=clang cmake ../anvill
# build
make -j 5
# install
sudo make install
```

Or you can tell CMake where to find the remill installation prefix by passing `-Dremill_DIR="<remill_prefix>/lib/cmake/remill"` during configuration.

Anvill's python plugins provide functionality needed to generate a JSON specification that contains information about the contents of a binary.
These depend on tools like [IDA Pro](https://www.hex-rays.com/products/ida) or [Binary Ninja](https://binary.ninja/) for various analysis tasks.

Given that we have either of the above, we can try out Anvill's machine code lifter on a binary of our choice.

**First, we generate a JSON specification from a binary:**

From the CLI:

```shell
python3 -m anvill --bin_in my_binary --spec_out spec.json
```

With the IDA plugin:
1. Open the binary inside IDA
2. Select **Run script** in the **File** menu
3. Open the `anvill/plugins/ida/anvill.py`
4. In the disasm window, place the cursor inside a function
5. Right click and select **Generate ANVILL spec file**

**Finally we produce LLVM bitcode from a JSON specification**

```
./build/anvill-decompile-json-*.0 --spec spec.json --bc_out out.bc
```

### Docker image

To build via Docker run, specify the architecture, base Ubuntu image and LLVM version. For example, to build Anvill linking against LLVM 9 on Ubuntu 20.04 on AMD64 do:

```shell
ARCH=amd64; UBUNTU_VERSION=20.04; LLVM=1100; \
   docker build . \
   -t anvill-llvm${LLVM}-ubuntu${UBUNTU_VERSION}-${ARCH} \
   -f Dockerfile \
   --build-arg UBUNTU_VERSION=${UBUNTU_VERSION} \
   --build-arg ARCH=${ARCH} \
   --build-arg LLVM_VERSION=${LLVM}
```

## `anvill-specify-bitcode`

`anvill-specify-bitcode` is a tool that produces specifications for all functions
contained in an LLVM bitcode module. The purpose of this tool is to enable
the creation of a database of specifications for commonly used, often externally-
defined functions in binaries (e.g. libc, libc++, libstdc++) in binaries lifted
by [McSema](https://github.com/lifting-bits/mcsema).

This tool also exists for enabling function declarations for binary code to be
written in C or C++, and then translated down into the specification form within
a decompiler toolchain.

Finally, this tool exists to enable round-trip testing of LLVM's ISEL lowering
and code generation for arbitrary functions.

Commit message:

passes: Add the SplitStackFrameAtReturnAddress function pass (#128)
* passes: Add the SplitStackFrameAtReturnAddress function pass

* CI: Update the workflow to clone submodules

* Add stack frame splitting into optimization passes

* passes: Refactor the SplitStackFrameAtReturnAddress pass

* passes: Remove prints from the SplitStackFrameAtReturnAddress tests

* passes: Code review changes on SplitStackFrameAtReturnAddress

Co-authored-by: Peter Goodman <peter.goodman@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Anvill

Anvill implements simple machine code lifting primitives using Remill.
The goal of these components is to produce high quality bitcode,
which can then be further decompiled to C (via Clang ASTs) using
[Rellic](https://github.com/trailofbits/rellic.git).

We define "high quality bitcode" as being similar in form to what the
Clang compiler would produce if it were executed on a semantically
equivalent C function.

<!-- ## Build Status

|       | master |
| ----- | ------ |
| Linux | [![Build Status](https://github.com/lifting-bits/anvill/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lifting-bits/anvill/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)| -->

## Getting Help

If you are experiencing undocumented problems with Anvill then ask for help in the `#binary-lifting` channel of the [Empire Hacking Slack](https://empireslacking.herokuapp.com/).

## Supported Platforms

Anvill is supported on Linux platforms and has been tested on Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04.

## Dependencies

Most of Anvill's dependencies can be provided by the [cxx-common](https://github.com/trailofbits/cxx-common) repository. Trail of Bits hosts downloadable, pre-built versions of the libraries for select operating systems, which makes it substantially easier to get up and running with Anvill. Nonetheless, the following table represents most of Anvill's dependencies.

| Name | Version |
| ---- | ------- |
| [Git](https://git-scm.com/) | Latest |
| [CMake](https://cmake.org/) | 3.14+ |
| [Clang](http://clang.llvm.org/) | 8.0+|
| [Remill](https://github.com/lifting-bits/remill) | Latest |
| [Python](https://www.python.org/) | 3.8 |
| [IDA Pro](https://www.hex-rays.com/products/ida) | 7.5+ |
| [Binary Ninja](https://binary.ninja/) | Latest |

## Getting and Building the Code

### On Linux
First, update aptitude and get install the baseline dependencies.

```shell
dpkg --add-architecture i386

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

sudo apt-get install \
     git \
     python3.8 \
     python3-pip \
     wget \
     curl \
     build-essential \
     libtinfo-dev \
     lsb-release \
     zlib1g-dev \
     ccache \
     cmake \
     libc6-dev:i386 \
     'libstdc++-*-dev:i386' \
     g++-multilib

# Ubuntu 14.04, 16.04
sudo apt-get install realpath
```

Assuming we have [Remill](https://github.com/lifting-bits/remill) properly installed the following steps provide a fresh build of Anvill.

```shell
# clone anvill repository
git clone https://github.com/lifting-bits/anvill.git
# create a build dir
mkdir anvill-build && cd anvill-build
# configure
CC=clang cmake ../anvill
# build
make -j 5
# install
sudo make install
```

Or you can tell CMake where to find the remill installation prefix by passing `-Dremill_DIR="<remill_prefix>/lib/cmake/remill"` during configuration.

Anvill's python plugins provide functionality needed to generate a JSON specification that contains information about the contents of a binary.
These depend on tools like [IDA Pro](https://www.hex-rays.com/products/ida) or [Binary Ninja](https://binary.ninja/) for various analysis tasks.

Given that we have either of the above, we can try out Anvill's machine code lifter on a binary of our choice.

**First, we generate a JSON specification from a binary:**

From the CLI:

```shell
python3 -m anvill --bin_in my_binary --spec_out spec.json
```

With the IDA plugin:
1. Open the binary inside IDA
2. Select **Run script** in the **File** menu
3. Open the `anvill/plugins/ida/anvill.py`
4. In the disasm window, place the cursor inside a function
5. Right click and select **Generate ANVILL spec file**

**Finally we produce LLVM bitcode from a JSON specification**

```
./build/anvill-decompile-json-*.0 --spec spec.json --bc_out out.bc
```

### Running tests

1. Configure with the following parameter: `-DANVILL_ENABLE_TESTS=true`
2. Run the **test** target: `cmake --build build_folder --target test`

### Docker image

To build via Docker run, specify the architecture, base Ubuntu image and LLVM version. For example, to build Anvill linking against LLVM 9 on Ubuntu 20.04 on AMD64 do:

```shell
ARCH=amd64; UBUNTU_VERSION=20.04; LLVM=1100; \
   docker build . \
   -t anvill-llvm${LLVM}-ubuntu${UBUNTU_VERSION}-${ARCH} \
   -f Dockerfile \
   --build-arg UBUNTU_VERSION=${UBUNTU_VERSION} \
   --build-arg ARCH=${ARCH} \
   --build-arg LLVM_VERSION=${LLVM}
```

## `anvill-specify-bitcode`

`anvill-specify-bitcode` is a tool that produces specifications for all functions
contained in an LLVM bitcode module. The purpose of this tool is to enable
the creation of a database of specifications for commonly used, often externally-
defined functions in binaries (e.g. libc, libc++, libstdc++) in binaries lifted
by [McSema](https://github.com/lifting-bits/mcsema).

This tool also exists for enabling function declarations for binary code to be
written in C or C++, and then translated down into the specification form within
a decompiler toolchain.

Finally, this tool exists to enable round-trip testing of LLVM's ISEL lowering
and code generation for arbitrary functions.
